README.md, before:

HTML5 Drag and Drop for Dart
================

Helper library to simplify **HTML5 Drag and Drop** in Dart.

## Features ##
* Make any HTML Element `draggable`.
* Create `dropzones` and connect them with `draggables`.
* Rearrange elements with `sortable` (similar to jQuery UI Sortable).
* Support for `touch events` on touch screen devices.
* Same functionality and API for IE9+, Firefox, Chrome and Safari.
* Uses fast native HTML5 Drag and Drop of the browser whenever possible.
* For browsers that do not support some features, the behaviour is emulated.
  This is the case for IE9 and partly for IE10 (when custom drag images are 
  used).

## Demo ##
See [HTML5 Drag and Drop in action](http://edu.makery.ch/projects/dart-html5-drag-and-drop)
(with code examples).

All examples are also available in the `example` directory on GitHub.

## Installation ##

### Add Dependency ###
Add the folowing to your **pubspec.yaml** and run **pub install**
```yaml
	dependencies:
	  html5_dnd: any
```

### Import ###
Import the `html5_dnd` library in your Dart code.

```dart
import 'package:html5_dnd/html5_dnd.dart';

// ...
```

## Usage ##
See the demo page above or the `example` directory to see some live examples 
with code.

In general, to make drag and drop work, we will have to do two things:
1. Create draggables by installing HTML elements in a `DraggableGroup`.
2. Create dropzones by installing HTML elements in a `DropzoneGroup`.

To make elements sortable it's even easier: Create sortables by installing HTML
elements in a `SortableGroup`. The `SortableGroup` will make the installed 
elements both into draggables and dropzones and thus creates sortable behaviour.


### Disable Touch Support ###
There is a global property called `enableTouchEvents` which is `true` by 
default. This means that touch events are automatically enabled on devices that 
support it. If touch support should not be used even on touch devices, set this 
flag to `false`. 


### Draggables ###
Any HTML element can be made draggable. First we'll have to create a 
`DraggableGroup` that manages draggable elements. The `DraggableGroup` holds
all options for dragging and provides event streams we can listen to.

This is how a `DraggableGroup` is created. With `install(...)` or 
`installAll(...)` elements are made draggable and registered in the group.

```dart
// Creating a DraggableGroup and installing some elements.
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();
dragGroup.installAll(queryAll('.my-draggables'));
```

With `uninstall(...)` or `uninstallAll(...)` draggables can be removed from 
the group and the draggable behaviour is uninstalled.

#### Draggable Options ####
The `DraggableGroup` has two constructor options:

* The `dragImageFunction` is used to provide a custom `DragImage`. If no 
  `dragImageFunction` is supplied, the drag image is created from the HTML 
  element of the draggable.
* If a `handle` is provided, it is used as query String to find a subelement of 
  draggable elements. The drag is then restricted to that subelement.

```dart
// Create a custom drag image from a png.
ImageElement png = new ImageElement(src: 'icons/smiley-happy.png');
DragImage img = new DragImage(png, 0, 0);

// Always return the same DragImage here. We could also create a different image 
// for each draggable.
DragImageFunction imageFunction = (Element draggable) {
  return img;
};

// Create DraggableGroup with custom drag image and a handle.
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup(
    dragImageFunction: imageFunction, handle: '.my-handle');
```

Other options of the `DraggableGroup`:

```dart
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();

// CSS class set to html body during drag.
dragGroup.dragOccurringClass = 'dnd-drag-occurring';

// CSS class set to the draggable element during drag.
dragGroup.draggingClass = 'dnd-dragging';

// CSS class set to the dropzone when a draggable is dragged over it.
dragGroup.overClass = 'dnd-over';

// Changes mouse cursor when this draggable is dragged over a draggable.
dragGroup.dropEffect = DROP_EFFECT_COPY; 
```

#### Draggable Events ####
We can listen to `dragStart`, `drag`, and `dragEnd` events of a 
`DraggableGroup`.

```dart 
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();

dragGroup.onDragStart.listen((DraggableEvent event) => print('drag started'));
dragGroup.onDrag.listen((DraggableEvent event) => print('dragging'));
dragGroup.onDragEnd.listen((DraggableEvent event) => print('drag ended'));
```


### Dropzones ###
Any HTML element can be made to a dropzone. Similar to how draggables are 
created, we create a dropzones:

```dart
// Creating a DropzoneGroup and installing some elements.
DropzoneGroup dropGroup = new DropzoneGroup();
dropGroup.installAll(queryAll('.my-dropzones'));
```

#### Dropzone Options ####
The `DropzoneGroup` has an option to specify which `DraggableGroup`s it accepts.
If no accept group is specified, the `DropzoneGroup` will accept all draggables.

```dart
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();
// ... install some draggable elements ...

DropzoneGroup dropGroup = new DropzoneGroup();
// ... install some dropzone elements ...

// Make dropGroup only accept draggables from dragGroup.
dropGroup.accept.add(dragGroup);
```

#### Dropzone Events ####
We can listen to `dragEnter`, `dragOver`, `dragLeave`, and `drop` events of a 
`DropzoneGroup`.

```dart 
DropzoneGroup dropGroup = new DropzoneGroup();

dropGroup.onDragEnter.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('drag entered'));
dropGroup.onDragOver.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('dragging over'));
dropGroup.onDragLeave.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('drag left'));
dropGroup.onDrop.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('dropped inside'));
```


### Sortables ###
For reordering of HTML elements we can use sortables. 

```dart
// Creating a SortableGroup and installing some elements.
SortableGroup sortGroup = new SortableGroup();
sortGroup.installAll(queryAll('.my-sortables'));
```

Note: All sortables are at the same time draggables and dropzones. This means 
we can set all options of `DraggableGroup` and `DropzoneGroup` on sortables and
listen to all their events.

#### Sortable Options ####
In addition to the inherited `DraggableGroup` and `DropzoneGroup` options, 
`SortableGroup` as the following options:

```dart
SortableGroup sortGroup = new SortableGroup();

// CSS class set to placeholder element. 
sortGroup.placeholderClass = 'dnd-placeholder';

// If true, forces the placeholder to have the computed size of the dragged element.
sortGroup.forcePlaceholderSize = true;

// Must be set to true for sortable grids. This ensures that different sized
// items in grids are handled correctly.
sortGroup.isGrid = false;
```

#### Sortable Events ####
There is one additional event for `SortableGroup`s:

```dart 
SortableGroup sortGroup = new SortableGroup();

sortGroup.onSortUpdate.listen((SortableEvent event) => print('elements were sorted'));
```


## Thanks and Contributions ##
I'd like to thank the people who kindly helped me with their answers or put 
some tutorial or code examples online. They've already contributed to this 
project.

If you'd like to contribute, you're welcome to report issues or 
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) my 
[repository on GitHub](https://github.com/marcojakob/dart-html5-dnd).



## License ##
The MIT License (MIT)

Commit message:

Add example image and correct typos.

README.md, after:

HTML5 Drag and Drop for Dart
================

Helper library to simplify **HTML5 Drag and Drop** in Dart.

## Features ##
* Make any HTML Element `draggable`.
* Create `dropzones` and connect them with `draggables`.
* Rearrange elements with `sortables` (similar to jQuery UI Sortable).
* Support for `touch events` on touch screen devices.
* Same functionality and API for IE9+, Firefox, Chrome and Safari.
* Uses fast native HTML5 Drag and Drop of the browser whenever possible.
* For browsers that do not support some features, the behaviour is emulated.
  This is the case for IE9 and partly for IE10 (when custom drag images are 
  used).

## Demo ##
See [HTML5 Drag and Drop in action](http://edu.makery.ch/projects/dart-html5-drag-and-drop)
(with code examples).

[![Drag and Drop Example](https://raw.github.com/marcojakob/html5_dnd/master/doc/dnd-example.png)](http://edu.makery.ch/projects/dart-html5-drag-and-drop)

All examples are also available in the `example` directory on GitHub.

## Installation ##

### Add Dependency ###
Add the folowing to your **pubspec.yaml** and run **pub install**
```yaml
	dependencies:
	  html5_dnd: any
```

### Import ###
Import the `html5_dnd` library in your Dart code.

```dart
import 'package:html5_dnd/html5_dnd.dart';

// ...
```

## Usage ##
See the demo page above or the `example` directory to see some live examples 
with code.

In general, to make drag and drop work, we will have to do two things:

1. Create draggables by installing HTML elements in a `DraggableGroup`.
2. Create dropzones by installing HTML elements in a `DropzoneGroup`.

To make elements sortable it's even easier: Create sortables by installing HTML
elements in a `SortableGroup`. The `SortableGroup` will make the installed 
elements both into draggables and dropzones and thus creates sortable behaviour.


### Disable Touch Support ###
There is a global property called `enableTouchEvents` which is `true` by 
default. This means that touch events are automatically enabled on devices that 
support it. If touch support should not be used even on touch devices, set this 
flag to `false`. 


### Draggables ###
Any HTML element can be made draggable. First we'll have to create a 
`DraggableGroup` that manages draggable elements. The `DraggableGroup` holds
all options for dragging and provides event streams we can listen to.

This is how a `DraggableGroup` is created. With `install(...)` or 
`installAll(...)` elements are made draggable and registered in the group.

```dart
// Creating a DraggableGroup and installing some elements.
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();
dragGroup.installAll(queryAll('.my-draggables'));
```

With `uninstall(...)` or `uninstallAll(...)` draggables can be removed from 
the group and the draggable behaviour is uninstalled.

#### Draggable Options ####
The `DraggableGroup` has two constructor options:

* The `dragImageFunction` is used to provide a custom `DragImage`. If no 
  `dragImageFunction` is supplied, the drag image is created from the HTML 
  element of the draggable.
* If a `handle` is provided, it is used as query String to find a subelement of 
  draggable elements. The drag is then restricted to that subelement.

```dart
// Create a custom drag image from a png.
ImageElement png = new ImageElement(src: 'icons/smiley-happy.png');
DragImage img = new DragImage(png, 0, 0);

// Always return the same DragImage here. We could also create a different image 
// for each draggable.
DragImageFunction imageFunction = (Element draggable) {
  return img;
};

// Create DraggableGroup with custom drag image and a handle.
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup(
    dragImageFunction: imageFunction, handle: '.my-handle');
```

Other options of the `DraggableGroup`:

```dart
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();

// CSS class set to html body during drag.
dragGroup.dragOccurringClass = 'dnd-drag-occurring';

// CSS class set to the draggable element during drag.
dragGroup.draggingClass = 'dnd-dragging';

// CSS class set to the dropzone when a draggable is dragged over it.
dragGroup.overClass = 'dnd-over';

// Changes mouse cursor when this draggable is dragged over a draggable.
dragGroup.dropEffect = DROP_EFFECT_COPY; 
```

#### Draggable Events ####
We can listen to `dragStart`, `drag`, and `dragEnd` events of a 
`DraggableGroup`.

```dart 
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();

dragGroup.onDragStart.listen((DraggableEvent event) => print('drag started'));
dragGroup.onDrag.listen((DraggableEvent event) => print('dragging'));
dragGroup.onDragEnd.listen((DraggableEvent event) => print('drag ended'));
```


### Dropzones ###
Any HTML element can be made to a dropzone. Similar to how draggables are 
created, we create a dropzones:

```dart
// Creating a DropzoneGroup and installing some elements.
DropzoneGroup dropGroup = new DropzoneGroup();
dropGroup.installAll(queryAll('.my-dropzones'));
```

#### Dropzone Options ####
The `DropzoneGroup` has an option to specify which `DraggableGroup`s it accepts.
If no accept group is specified, the `DropzoneGroup` will accept all draggables.

```dart
DraggableGroup dragGroup = new DraggableGroup();
// ... install some draggable elements ...

DropzoneGroup dropGroup = new DropzoneGroup();
// ... install some dropzone elements ...

// Make dropGroup only accept draggables from dragGroup.
dropGroup.accept.add(dragGroup);
```

#### Dropzone Events ####
We can listen to `dragEnter`, `dragOver`, `dragLeave`, and `drop` events of a 
`DropzoneGroup`.

```dart 
DropzoneGroup dropGroup = new DropzoneGroup();

dropGroup.onDragEnter.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('drag entered'));
dropGroup.onDragOver.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('dragging over'));
dropGroup.onDragLeave.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('drag left'));
dropGroup.onDrop.listen((DropzoneEvent event) => print('dropped inside'));
```


### Sortables ###
For reordering of HTML elements we can use sortables. 

```dart
// Creating a SortableGroup and installing some elements.
SortableGroup sortGroup = new SortableGroup();
sortGroup.installAll(queryAll('.my-sortables'));
```

Note: All sortables are at the same time draggables and dropzones. This means 
we can set all options of `DraggableGroup` and `DropzoneGroup` on sortables and
listen to all their events.

#### Sortable Options ####
In addition to the inherited `DraggableGroup` and `DropzoneGroup` options, 
`SortableGroup` has the following options:

```dart
SortableGroup sortGroup = new SortableGroup();

// CSS class set to placeholder element. 
sortGroup.placeholderClass = 'dnd-placeholder';

// If true, forces the placeholder to have the computed size of the dragged element.
sortGroup.forcePlaceholderSize = true;

// Must be set to true for sortable grids. This ensures that different sized
// items in grids are handled correctly.
sortGroup.isGrid = false;
```

#### Sortable Events ####
Next to the inherited `DraggableGroup` and `DropzoneGroup` events 
`SortableGroup` has one additional event:

```dart 
SortableGroup sortGroup = new SortableGroup();

sortGroup.onSortUpdate.listen((SortableEvent event) => print('elements were sorted'));
```


## Thanks and Contributions ##
I'd like to thank the people who kindly helped me with their answers or put 
some tutorial or code examples online. They've indirectly contributed to this 
project.

If you'd like to contribute, you're welcome to report issues or 
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) my 
[repository on GitHub](https://github.com/marcojakob/dart-html5-dnd).



## License ##
The MIT License (MIT)
